Some of the most powerful national security positions in Washington are ones you’ve never heard of. The under secretary of defense for personnel and readiness is one of those positions. The appointee in the position sets personnel policy for the Department of Defense, standardizing practices across the military services affecting the recruitment, retention, and management of the nation’s uniformed human capital. The decisions the under secretary makes today will have implications for uniformed military leadership 30 to 40 years in the future.
In April, the Biden administration nominated former California congressman and Navy veteran Gil Cisneros as the country’s next under secretary of defense for personnel and readiness. If confirmed, Cisneros will fill a pivotal position in the Department of Defense. In order to capitalize on this moment, the under secretary should take a proactive approach to leading the Defense Department and inspire service-level leadership to consider how to build, maintain, and utilize the force to protect the nation against a range of adversaries.
There are few things in the Pentagon more consequential than military personnel policy
The defense community tends to overlook the importance of military personnel management as an area of strategic investment. Instead, it focuses on current operations, logistics and sustainment, and the development, acquisition, and fielding of high-end platforms. While these elements are crucial for the execution of U.S. national security strategy, the successful implementation of each element hinges on the services being fully manned with the kinds of high-quality officers and enlisted personnel necessary for managing complex systems and processes. High-end platforms tend to garner a lot more attention due to the magnitude of their cost. However, the Defense Department spends roughly one-quarter of its total budget on military personnel — more than what it spends on the procurement of weapons systems or their research and development.
In addition, there are few things in the Pentagon more consequential than military personnel policy. The military personnel system is a closed promotion system, meaning that the future leadership of the services (both flag and general officers and senior non-commissioned officers) is selected from within the service. Unlike corporations or federal departments, which can recruit talent laterally at the most senior levels, military leadership is selected from a limited pool of candidates who are filtered through a promotion process that culls that pool at regular intervals. As a result of this closed system, officers commissioned this year will provide the talent pool from which the future joint chiefs of staff will be selected in the year 2058.
Read the full article and more from War on the Rocks.The bombs may have stopped falling on Gaza and the rocket fire from there has ceased for now, but Gazans face a huge task of rebuilding. Ilan Goldenberg, director of the Middle East Program at the Center for a New American Security, and Zaha Hassan, a human rights lawyer and visiting fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, join Nick Schifrin for more on the rebuilding of Gaza.
Watch the full interview from PBS NewsHour.The prevalence of artificial intelligence (AI) systems, the growing centrality of information warfare, and threats to traditional command and control are redefining combat in the age of strategic competition. Amidst debates on the use of lethal autonomous weapon systems (LAWS) and pressure to modernize U.S. defense capabilities, what steps must the United States take to maintain its military advantage? CNAS experts are sharpening the conversation about the deployment of autonomous weapons and other defense technologies to enhance U.S. military readiness. Continue reading this edition of Sharper to explore their ideas and recommendations.
Features
More than Half the Battle
Gaining an advantage in managing information and exercising command is a precondition of victory in warfare. This necessity has become even more acute as military organizations have integrated information technology into their forces and operations. The Pentagon’s belated response to these strategies appears overly technological and unrealistically fixated on regaining the kind of information dominance that the U.S. armed forces enjoyed in the aftermath of the Cold War. A new CNAS report by Chris Dougherty examines how the Department of Defense (DoD) can embrace, rather than fight against, the changes in the character of warfare and learn to thrive within its chaos in ways that China and Russia may be unable to match.
AI and International Stability: Risks and Confidence-Building Measures
In recent years, the machine learning revolution has sparked a wave of interest in AI applications across a range of industries. Nations are also mobilizing to use AI for national security and military purposes, write Paul Scharre and Michael Horowitz. It is therefore vital to assess how the militarization of AI could affect international stability and how to encourage militaries to adopt AI in a responsible manner. Doing so requires understanding the features of AI, the ways it could shape warfare, and the risks to international stability resulting from the militarization of artificial intelligence.
The Defense Industrial Base of the Future
America’s future leadership in the world and on the battlefield will be dependent on its ingenuity. Yet, while America remains the world’s leader in technology, its relative advantage wanes, argues Mikhail Grinberg in a CNAS policy brief. Future military operating environments will require technology from more diverse sources and business models that enable faster innovation cycles. Grinberg concludes that the superiority of next-generation weapon systems will be derived from progress in science, and the next National Defense Strategy needs to help the nation prioritize basic research as a source of competitive advantage.
DEFENSE
More than Half the Battle
The DoD needs to embrace, rather than fight against, the changes in the character of warfare and learn to thrive within its chaos in ways that China and Russia may be unable t...
TECHNOLOGY & NATIONAL SECURITY
AI and International Stability: Risks and Confidence-Building Measures
Exploring the potential use of confidence-building measures built around the shared interests that all countries have in preventing inadvertent war....
DEFENSE
The Defense Industrial Base of the Future
The next iteration of defense technologies will require much more overlap with commercial industry....
Principles for the Combat Employment of Weapon Systems with Autonomous Functionalities
An international debate over lethal autonomous weapon systems (LAWS) has been under way for nearly a decade. A new CNAS report by author Robert O. Work offers seven new principles that concentrate on the responsible use of autonomous functionalities in armed conflict in ways that preserve human judgment and responsibility over the use of force, and help minimize the probability of loss of control of the system or unintended engagements.
Sharpening the U.S. Military’s Edge: Critical Steps for the Next Administration
Michèle Flournoy and Gabrielle Chefitz argue in a CNAS policy brief that the United States is losing its military technological advantage vis-à-vis great-power competitors such as China, and reversing this trend must be DoD leadership’s top priority. Doing so will require focused and empowered leadership, increased investment in the development of new concepts and capabilities, new pathways and incentives for promising prototypes to bridge the “valley of death” into production, a willingness to make hard program and budget choices, the development of a more tech-savvy workforce, and greater partnership with Congress to pursue these goals together.
TECHNOLOGY & NATIONAL SECURITY
Principles for the Combat Employment of Weapon Systems with Autonomous Functionalities
Introduction An international debate over lethal autonomous weapon systems (LAWS) has been under way for nearly a decade.1 In 2012, the Department of Defense (DoD) issued for...
DEFENSE
Sharpening the U.S. Military’s Edge: Critical Steps for the Next Administration
The Bottom Line The United States is losing its military technological advantage vis-à-vis great power competitors such as China. Reversing this trend must be DoD leadership’...
Commentaries
It’s Time for the Pentagon To Take Data Principles More Seriously
"The Defense Department’s data still remains predominantly siloed, messy, and unused," write Robert O. Work and Tara Murphy Dougherty in War on the Rocks. "While defense leaders rightfully become seized with the importance of data, it should move faster. Defense leaders should create the policies, processes, and programs to turn data into useful information quickly and accurately, thereby enabling more effective decision-making."
All About Eve: What Virtual Forever Wars Can Teach us About the Future of Combat
"Within minutes, hundreds of pilots at terminals around the world, all responding to similar notifications, have logged in and are being briefed on our mission objectives," writes Thomas Shugart in War on the Rocks. "One might think that this is a fanciful vision of the future of warfare conducted remotely by networked military forces. But in fact it’s happening right now, albeit virtually, in the world of massively multiplayer online role-playing games—specifically, in the universe of EVE Online. For some time now there has been interest from the defense sector in looking at video games as a source of innovation. Certainly, as anyone knows who has spent much time both playing modern computer games and using military hardware, the defense world could learn a lot from the gaming world. In some cases, it already has."
Institutional Roadblocks to the Defense Department’s Adoption of AI
"Advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) present remarkable opportunities and novel challenges for America’s national security institutions," observe Megan Lamberth and Martijn Rasser in a CNAS commentary. "As a general-purpose technology analogous to electricity or the internal combustion engine, AI can be particularly transformational for the Department of Defense, enabling new capabilities in areas as varied as warfighting, logistics and maintenance, command and control, surveillance, intelligence collection and analysis, and healthcare. Overcoming institutional and cultural barriers is one of the foremost challenges to successfully adopting and deploying AI technologies critical to U.S. national security."
DEFENSE
It’s Time for the Pentagon To Take Data Principles More Seriously
Defense leaders should create the policies, processes, and programs to turn data into useful information quickly and accurately....
DEFENSE
All About Eve: What Virtual Forever Wars Can Teach us About the Future of Combat
The defense world could learn a lot from the gaming world. In some cases, it already has....
DEFENSE
Institutional Roadblocks to the Defense Department’s Adoption of AI
Bureaucratic inertia, stemming in part from deep-rooted institutional and cultural resistance, has hampered DoD’s ability to rapidly develop, acquire, and deploy AI capabiliti...
In the News
Featuring commentary and analysis by Paul Scharre, Chris Dougherty, and Megan Lamberth
TECHNOLOGY & NATIONAL SECURITY
Are ‘killer robots’ the future of warfare?
Paul Scharre joins host Suzanna Kianpour to discuss the technology, fears and even potential advantages of developing autonomous weapons. Listen to the full conversation from...
DEFENSE
United States can improve deterrence by posing dilemmas to China and Russia
Chris Dougherty, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, joins Government Matters to discuss strategy for multi-domain information warfare. Watch the full in...
TECHNOLOGY & NATIONAL SECURITY
Biden’s infrastructure plan includes billions to develop emerging tech the military needs
President Joe Biden’s infrastructure plan released Wednesday calls for $180 billion in new research and development spending on emerging technologies expected to define the co...
About the Sharper Series
The CNAS Sharper series features curated analysis and commentary from CNAS experts on the most critical challenges in U.S. foreign policy. From the future of America's relationship with China to the state of U.S. sanctions policy and more, each collection draws on the reports, interviews, and other commentaries produced by experts across the Center to explore how America can strengthen its competitive edge.
Subscribe
Sign up to receive the latest analysis from the CNAS expert community on the most important issues facing America's national security.
Name *


Email *


SubscribeWhat is role of defense and security in the upcoming German election? Claudia Major and Christian Mölling join Andrea Kendall-Taylor and Jim Townsend to discuss the future of German security and defense policy under new leadership, what that might mean for the transatlantic alliance, and more.
Claudia Major is the Head of the International Security Division at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in Berlin. Her work focusses on security and defense policy in Europe and in a transatlantic context. Christian Mölling became research director of German Council on Foreign Relations in February 2017, where he also heads the Security and Defense Program.
Brussels Sprouts · Politics and Defense Policy in Germany, with Christian Mölling and Claudia MajorI first unexpectedly met a North Korean defector while studying abroad at the Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea during the spring of 2014. I did not know it at the time, but my future interactions with North Korean defectors would forever change the course of my education, professional aspirations, and approach to politics.
Near the end of the semester, our professor invited a former U.S. diplomat specializing in U.S.-DPRK relations to present on North Korea’s ongoing humanitarian crisis and systematic human rights abuses. During the Q&A session, a student poised a question which still rings clear in my ears seven years later, “Has North Korea really not changed at all since the late 90s?” The question itself did not invoke any unique reaction, but the melancholy tone of her voice added a heaviness to the classroom atmosphere. The former diplomat responded in a curt, but sympathetic tone, “No. I am afraid the human rights situation has only worsened under Kim Jong Un.” I spotted our professor giving the student a slight nod, indicating his approval and encouragement as she took a deep breath and spoke, “I am asking because I am from North Korea and I do not know if my friends back home are still alive.” The class went silent. All the South Korean students brandished mixed expressions of fear and confusion, fundamentally torn as they discovered that our classmate was from the enemy state of North Korea.
All I brought to Korea was genuine curiosity and a humble interest to learn, and I was met with kindness from the most unlikely of people.
As one of the only foreigners in the class, I could feel the division of the two Koreas settle within the room, recalling how one male student recently cursed North Korea for, in his words, wasting two years of his life in the South Korean army due to the mandatory conscription law. However, the atmosphere gradually lightened as she explained how and why she fled North Korea for a better life which brought tears to nearly every student in the room. The reunification of the Korean Peninsula is often discussed in terms of complete economic, geographical, and/or political fusion of the two Koreas which seems to drift farther away each year as the gap between them continues to deepen. But at that moment, I believed I witnessed a more attainable, authentic, and humanistic form of reunification between the two Korean peoples: empathy between South Korean nationals and North Korean defectors. Although unaware at the time, that moment forever changed my life.
Read the full article from DecipherGrey.It is neither an accident nor a coincidence that China is committing what many call genocide against Muslim Uighurs in Xinjiang, and that Russia has jailed the dissident Alexei Navalny. The Chinese need a quiescent Xinjiang because it is a key node of their Eurasia-spanning Belt and Road Initiative. The Kremlin needs government institutions to serve as a cover for wealth accumulation by a gangster elite, and thus sees Navalny as a major threat.
Both countries are in the grip of nervous autocratic systems that cannot afford to offer second chances to anyone. In carrying out their recent abuses, both have implicitly made certain calculations of how the United States and its allies will – or will not – respond
The US must not throw away the strategic advantage conferred by its longstanding commitment to human rights
A foreign policy dominated completely by human rights would be unsustainable, forcing the US to abandon core national interests – such as keeping the peace with other nuclear powers – and dragging senior policymakers into one humanitarian crisis after another. A policy that virtually ignored human rights, however, would reduce the US to the one-dimensional realpolitik that characterizes Chinese and Russian behavior. A concern for human rights is what differentiates the US from others as a great power.
This difference is all the more important at a time when many US allies will soon list China as their biggest trading partner. As China’s economic clout grows, an America that cannot appeal to its allies’ core values will soon find itself at a distinct disadvantage. True, Asians and Europeans talk a good game on human rights while practicing a ruthless realpolitik themselves; but the fact that they recognize the need to talk that game speaks not only to how they want to be viewed, but how they want to view themselves
Read the full article from Project Syndicate.Around the Table is a three-question interview series from the Make Room email newsletter. Each edition features a conversation with a peer in the national security community to learn about their expertise and experience in the sector.
Lauren Sung is an analyst at Center for Advanced Defense Studies (C4ADS) specializing in Northeast Asia, counterproliferation, and North Korea. The views expressed are those of the author and do not reflect the position of C4ADS.
C4ADS is known for effectively using open-source data to inform its research. How were you able to find and use open-source data as a tool to learn about North Korea, the world's most isolated country?
It is certainly true that approaching the North Korea problem set from an open-source perspective is different to harnessing publicly available information (PAI) in many other jurisdictions, as the country shares almost no domestic records. However, data exists where North Korea interacts with foreign countries or networks that do keep records—such as North Korean companies registering and operating overseas or customs records, or where data is collected agnostically of state boundaries, such as satellite imagery or automatic identification system (AIS) data.
These datasets shed light on how the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) conducts business and generates revenue overseas, and the supply chain of goods, including sanctioned commodities, in and out of the country. For instance, in our report that tracked the shipment of luxury goods to Pyongyang, we relied on AIS (ship transmission) data, port and trade records, and flight records. In our latest report looking at North Korea’s illicit fuel procurement, we relied heavily on satellite imagery as well as the two above data sources, to observe the location and activities of vessels, especially in the absence of AIS data. In all of our work, we also use public records, such as corporate registration data, from across the world to gather more information on the entities in North Korea’s overseas networks.
In addition to your North Korea research, you study organized crime in Asia. How is organized crime in Asia linked to broader geopolitical issues?
Transnational organized criminal networks often provide an avenue through which rogue actors can achieve extralegal goals, and their activities and the illicit gains generated can play a role in destabilizing institutions and international norms. For instance, we observed in our recent report that North Korea’s illicit supply chain for oil, a commodity key to Pyongyang’s regime survival and its proliferation agenda, is reliant on the region's long-existing fuel black market. For decades, smugglers in this region have exploited price differences of fuel across borders to buy cheaply and sell for profit. In the process, they have developed the tradecraft to evade authorities and the financial and logistical capacity to smuggle fuel at volume. Since the U.N. Security Council imposed a cap on the DPRK’s fuel imports in 2017, these organized criminal networks have been diverting fuel from licit supply chains to meet North Korea's demand for fuel that it can no longer legally acquire.
It's more than aiding North Korea's sanctions evasions though. A closer look at these networks revealed that they have also engaged in bribery of public officials, and maintain contentious political affiliations, such as having ties to gangs involved in violence against protestors in Hong Kong and patriotic organizations linked to the Chinese Communist Party.
Do you find that there are challenges to working on national security issues related to Asia as an individual of Asian heritage? How can we overcome those?
As concerns about Asia-related national security issues heighten, particularly vis-à-vis China, so has skepticism and discrimination toward Asian heritage individuals in this field. Many Asian national security professionals have experienced prejudice as a result of their heritage, in which others assume that one’s ethnic background biases one’s judgement or even affects one’s loyalties, especially in cases where the subject matter directly relates to one or one’s family’s “place of origin.” While it is true that none of us are free from bias, we should note that other professional claims of impartial judgement that are not related to race or ethnicity, (e.g., claiming bipartisanism) are not met with the same kind of prejudice.
In my opinion, overcoming these issues is achieved by distinguishing the subject matter, such as China, or any other Asian state, from the people of that heritage (particularly if that heritage is suspected, not confirmed), as well as to understand that “Asian” or “Asian heritage” are umbrella terms for an incredibly diverse range of people and backgrounds. This will not be easy. But the first step is increasing Asian representation in the national security sector, including in positions of leadership, thereby driving the conversation to normalize our participation in this community.
Subscribe
Sign up to receive the Make Room newsletter every month in your inbox.
Name *


Email *


SubscribeChris Dougherty, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, joins Government Matters to discuss strategy for multi-domain information warfare.
Watch the full interview from Government Matters.Will Inboden and Jim Golby sit down with Amb. Kay Bailey Hutchison, a former U.S. senator and most recently U.S. ambassador to NATO. They discuss NATO’s future, the challenges that confront NATO now.
Listen to the full conversation from War on the Rocks.Sanctions are becoming an increasingly important part of the Biden administration's foreign policy toolkit. Carnegie Council Senior Fellows Nick Gvosdev and Tatiana Serafin discuss their impact and effectiveness, looking at the latest moves vis-à-vis Russia, China, Iran, and more with Center for a New American Security's Rachel Ziemba.
Listen to the full conversation from the Carnegie Council.What are Russia’s goals are in their military posture in and around Ukraine, and how might the U.S. and NATO respond? General (Ret.) Curtis Scaparrotti and Lieutenant General (Ret.) Ben Hodges join Andrea Kendall-Taylor and Jim Townsend to discuss Russia’s military presence on the Ukrainian border, the drawdown of Russian troops, and NATO’s broader posture in Eastern Europe.
General (Ret.) Curtis Scaparrotti is a senior counselor at the Cohen Group. In 2019, he completed a distinguished 41-year career in the US Army as the Commander, US European Command and Supreme Allied Commander Europe, NATO. Lieutenant General (Ret.) Ben Hodges holds the Pershing Chair in Strategic Studies at the Center for European Policy Analysis. He previously served in the U.S. Army for 38 years, completing his last assignment as commander of U.S. Army Europe from 2014-2017 in Wiesbaden, Germany.
Brussels Sprouts · Brussels Sprouts_5.18.21_Hodges + Scapparotti“Everyone’s got a plan until they get punched in the mouth,” Mike Tyson said of disrupting opponents’ thinking through violence. Today, China and Russia channel Tyson through strategies that attack U.S. military information and command systems and exploit the resulting cognitive and psychological disruption. They believe that degrading these systems and functions will turn traditional U.S. strengths into weaknesses and allow them to win limited, local conflicts, or deter the United States from fighting altogether. This belief isn’t misplaced.
The Pentagon will soon unveil its solution to this challenge, Joint All-Domain Command and Control, which envisions an overarching network-of-networks enabled by artificial intelligence and cloud data storage. In theory, this hyper-network will restore U.S. information dominance by linking every sensor to every “shooter” across vast theaters to deliver converging effects from dispersed forces, thereby presenting multiple insoluble dilemmas to Chinese or Russian armed forces.
Put simply, the Pentagon needs a plan for getting punched in the mouth.
After 30 years fighting below its so-called weight class, the Pentagon has largely forgotten how to deal with opponents that can disrupt its information and command-and-control systems. U.S. armed forces desperately need a new network architecture, but this vision is simultaneously too ambitious, and not ambitious enough. China and Russia have spent decades developing capabilities and operational concepts to disrupt U.S. information and command systems in space, cyberspace and the electromagnetic spectrum. Countless wargames, simulations and historical lessons suggest these domains will be highly contested, and systems operating within them will be heavily degraded. Regaining the information dominance U.S. forces enjoyed during the post-Cold War era is a chimerical goal. Instead, the Pentagon should aim for degradation dominance: operating effectively enough with degraded systems. Put simply, the Pentagon needs a plan for getting punched in the mouth.
Read the full article from C4ISRNET.In recent days, Israel and Palestine have been overcome by the worst violence since the 2014 Gaza war. This flare-up poses the first real test to the Biden administration’s foreign policy toward the conflict. As COVID-19, domestic crises, and competition with China remain top priorities for the U.S. government, what role should the United States play in de-escalation between Israel and Palestine? CNAS research and experts provide valuable context and sharpen the conversation about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Features
A New U.S. Strategy for the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
Today’s realities demand that the United States change its approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Its focus has been on high-profile diplomatic initiatives that aim for a permanent agreement in which the United States is the central mediator. In a CNAS report, Ilan Goldenberg, Michael Koplow, and Tamara Cofman Wittes write that instead, the United States must focus on taking tangible steps, both on the ground and diplomatically, that will improve the freedom, prosperity, and security of all people living between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River, while also cultivating the conditions for a future two-state agreement negotiated between the parties.
Ending Gaza’s Perpetual Crisis
A task force between CNAS and Brookings Institute experts examined U.S. options for addressing the ongoing crisis in the Gaza Strip. The authors of a subsequent report—Hady Amr, Ilan Goldenberg, Kevin Huggard, and Natan Sachs—recommend a new U.S. policy toward Gaza that will not require a fundamental shift in objectives, but will demand a major change in the strategies and tools the United States uses to achieve its goals, as well as greater American engagement.
The Case Against Foreign Policy Solutionism
"In the Middle East, the new administration has criticized the Trump plan for an Israeli-Palestinian settlement as one-sided and wholly unrealistic, and Biden advisers have advocated for a more evenhanded approach that would build momentum toward a two-state solution," writes Richard Fontaine in Foreign Affairs. "Unfortunately, however correct those criticisms of the Trump approach, other comprehensive plans are unlikely to be much more successful than the Trump administration’s attempt to unlock 'the deal of the century.'"
MIDDLE EAST SECURITY
A New U.S. Strategy for the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
Executive Summary Key Proposition Today’s realities demand that the United States change its approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Its current focus is on high-profile...
MIDDLE EAST SECURITY
Ending Gaza’s Perpetual Crisis
Executive Summary Situation Overview A crisis is unfolding in the Gaza Strip. Its nearly 2 million residents live amid a man-made humanitarian disaster, with severe urban cr...
INDO-PACIFIC SECURITY
The Case Against Foreign Policy Solutionism
Not all problems can actually be solved—and many of today’s foremost foreign policy challenges fall squarely into that category....
A Security System for the Two-State Solution
A report authored by current and former U.S. and Israeli military officials and negotiators argues that well-thought-through security measures in the context of the two-state solution can provide Israelis and Palestinians with a degree of security equal or greater to that provided today by Israel’s deployment into the West Bank, and that such measures can be consistent with Palestinian needs for sovereignty and dignity.
Demilitarizing U.S. Policy in the Middle East
"In every instance, policymakers tried to shift away from the region without having a coherent strategy for more cheaply and efficiently managing America’s limited interests," observe CNAS experts Ilan Goldenberg and Kaleigh Thomas. "When such an approach resulted in failure, each administration overcompensated and became too invested in the region. What is needed instead is a sustainable, limited, steady state approach to the Middle East."
Virtual Report Launch: A New U.S. Strategy for the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
On December 16, 2020, the Center for a New American Security hosted a virtual panel discussion to coincide with the launch of a new report entitled A New U.S. Strategy for the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict, by Ilan Goldenberg, Michael Koplow, and Tamara Cofman Wittes. The authors argue that today’s realities demand that the United States change its approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict away from a focus on high-profile, U.S.-mediated diplomatic initiatives to achieve an Israeli-Palestinian permanent agreement.
MIDDLE EAST SECURITY
A Security System for the Two-State Solution
Report outlines comprehensive security arrangements for Israelis and Palestinians based on six core principles and provides proposed solutions to all of the toughest security ...
DEFENSE
Demilitarizing U.S. Policy in the Middle East
The next NDS must detail a new approach to the Middle East....
MIDDLE EAST SECURITY
Virtual Report Launch: A New U.S. Strategy for the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
Dec 16, 2020
In the News
Featuring commentary and analysis by Ilan Goldenberg
MIDDLE EAST SECURITY
What the Latest Fighting Between Israelis and Palestinians Means for Biden
To understand what the latest fighting means for Washington, Foreign Policy spoke to Ilan Goldenberg, who served as a senior State Department official in the Obama administrat...
MIDDLE EAST SECURITY
Biden Takes Muted Approach To Violence In Israel And Gaza
Scott Detrow from NPR's Weekend Edition speaks to Middle East Security Program Director Ilan Goldenberg about the escalating conflict in Gaza. Listen to the full interview fr...
MIDDLE EAST SECURITY
Middle East security director on the continued violence in Gaza, Israel
President Biden today called for de-escalation of violence in the Middle East. Ilan Goldenberg, Middle East Security Program Director at the Center for a New American Security...
About the Sharper Series
The CNAS Sharper series features curated analysis and commentary from CNAS experts on the most critical challenges in U.S. foreign policy. From the future of America's relationship with China to the state of U.S. sanctions policy and more, each collection draws on the reports, interviews, and other commentaries produced by experts across the Center to explore how America can strengthen its competitive edge.
Subscribe
Sign up to receive the latest analysis from the CNAS expert community on the most important issues facing America's national security.
Name *


Email *


SubscribePressure is building for President Joe Biden to do more to try to halt Israel’s assault on Gaza. Ilan Goldenberg, former chief of staff to the US special envoy for Israeli-Palestinian negotiations talks with The World’s Carol Hills about steps the Biden team can take to get a ceasefire.
Listen to the full conversation from The WorldTo read and listen to the headlines after House Republicans voted to remove Rep. Liz Cheney from her leadership post, one would think that the “turning point” in the Republican Party began with its denial of the 2020 election result after Nov. 3, or the Capitol insurrection on Jan. 6. Neither of those moments, however, is or was the actual turning point. Instead, the transformation one of the nation’s two major political parties took place well before each of those events. And the longer it takes for the public conversation to recognize how dramatically the Republican Party has already shifted, the longer it will take to develop a coherent civic strategy to protect U.S. democracy going forward.
And we do need a strategy, because this political crisis is not just the internal machinations of a single political party; it is a political crisis of a nation. Indeed, it might not be hyperbolic to characterize our present national state as in the midst of the third revolution.
We are witness to a political revolution that will define American society and governance for decades to come
What was at first an acquiescence to Donald Trump since his nomination at the Republican National Convention in 2016 slowly became a public acceptance, and then an entanglement. Some who were slow to realize the tectonic shift taking place in the Republican Party over the past five years have awakened from their slumber in the wake of the attack on the Capitol. They are a little late. Those who thought they could wait out Trump’s presidential term before getting on the right side of history were wrong; the time for choosing in a way to actually affect the trajectory of the modern-day Republican Party was earlier.
Read the full article from USA Today.Scott Detrow from NPR's Weekend Edition speaks to Middle East Security Program Director Ilan Goldenberg about the escalating conflict in Gaza.
Listen to the full interview from NPR.As China gains ground in a global competition across the military, economic, diplomatic, and technological domains, the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) made up of Australia, India, Japan, and the United States (US) is finally finding its footing. The extent to which Quad countries can collaborate across all four domains will determine whether China’s designs on the Indo-Pacific will succeed.
However, the first order of Quad business is assisting India as it grapples with a ferocious second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. India’s priority is taking care of its sick and getting its population vaccinated as soon as possible. Quad countries — and all of India’s friends — should do what they can to help India in its time of need.
The extent to which Quad countries can collaborate across all four domains will determine whether China’s designs on the Indo-Pacific will succeed.
While the US was slow to offer needed materials for vaccine production, it has since come through and is providing those items plus oxygen, therapeutics, testing kits, personal protective equipment, and other aid. More importantly, Washington has also decided it will support India’s calls to temporarily lift patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines. The move could be a game-changer for India’s vaccination campaign.
Japan, for its part, has provided an initial batch of oxygen concentrators and ventilators and pledged $50 million in grant aid. Australia has announced a support package for India, although Prime Minister (PM) Scott Morrison’s banning of Australian citizens from returning home from India has created a backlash in India and among human rights groups.How can the transatlantic alliance manage the political and security challenges presented by the Nord Stream 2 pipeline? Daniel Fried and Steven Piferjoin Andrea Kendall-Taylor and Jim Townsend to discuss Nord Stream 2, diplomatic challenges, and more.
Daniel Fried is a Distinguished Fellow at the Atlantic Council. He is also on the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy and a Visiting Professor at Warsaw University. He previously had a forty-year career in Foreign Service, where he played a key role in designing and implementing American policy in Europe after the fall of the Soviet Union. He became one of the U.S. government’s foremost experts on Central and Eastern Europe and Russia. Steven Pifer is a fellow at the Robert Bosch Academy in Berlin and a non-resident senior fellow with the Brookings Institution. In his previous career as a Foreign Service officer, his more than 25 years with the State Department focused on U.S. relations with the former Soviet Union and Europe, as well as arms control and security issues. His research focuses on nuclear arms control, Ukraine, Russia, and European security.
Brussels Sprouts · Nord Stream 2 and the Biden Administration, with Daniel Fried and Steven PiferGovernment Matters spoke to Ainikki Riikonen about the need for a national technology strategy coordinate technology and innovation.
Watch the full video from Government Matters.Security tensions are brewing in East Asia. China has on several recent occasions sent military aircraft to fly around Taiwan, including into its air defense identification zone, complete with taunts from the Chinese pilots. Officials and analysts worry that an attack on the self-governing island could be in the offing. But when? Sometime between tomorrow and mid-century. Or never. No one knows, and that’s because no one really knows what drives China’s decision-making.
Some commentators have advanced what might be called structural theories about when and why China could attempt to invade Taiwan. General Secretary Xi Jinping has proclaimed the goal of achieving the “great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation” by the centennial anniversary of the founding the People’s Republic of China in 2049 (often shorthanded as “mid-century”). Rejuvenation and unification are inextricable in the eyes of the CCP. Xi asserted in January 2019 that the “Taiwan question…will definitely end with China’s rejuvenation.” Others expect it sooner: by 2035, when state-run media say the People’s Liberation Army, will “basically” be modernized enough to fight and win a regional war against another advanced military. The implication being that China will invade once it concludes the PLA can win.
Washington should continue to emphasize to Beijing the costs of aggression and the value of the status quo for China, the region, and the world—saving the most vehement messages for private channels
Alternative structural assessments see a more imminent peril. They argue the world, especially the United States, is entering a dangerous decade in relations with China generally and with regard to Taiwan specifically, where Beijing’s relative power is reaching an apex compared to would-be geopolitical competitors. Those theories posit that Chinese leaders might conclude they must attempt to forcibly annex Taiwan while they are at their strongest or risk it falling out of their grasp forever. Others acknowledge China faces future challenges but note that even slowing economic growth rates would arrive on top of a massive base, so Beijing’s power, at least relative to Taiwan, will likely continue to accrue.
Another category of theories about when China might send mount a full-spectrum invasion might be described as events-driven.
Read the full article from Defense One.The Women, Peace, and Security (WPS) Act of 2017 is a seminal piece of legislation for recognizing the role women play in their communities and their underrepresentation in conflict management, prevention, and post-conflict reconstruction. Although primarily focused on international partners, the act also requires the Department of Defense (DoD) to meaningfully employ women throughout the force and at every level of leadership. This requirement has implications for gender integration efforts and reinforces the recognition that the effects of gender-based violence against female service members deeply matter in the context of national security.
Sexual harassment, assault, and cultural norms that foster gender-based violence endanger service members.
The need to understand and address the effects of gender-based violence within the military services has been long-standing, but the topic took on heightened importance following the April 2020 murder of Vanessa Guillén. In August 2020, the Military, Veterans, and Society program at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), in partnership with the Athena Leadership Project, hosted a discussion with four female service members that underscored the need for national and departmental strategy to comprehensively support women.
Sexual harassment, assault, and cultural norms that foster gender-based violence endanger service members. If the DoD is going to be a leader in implementing the WPS, as well as its own guidance, it must meaningfully tackle current roadblocks. This brief outlines the connection between sexual assault and the WPS Act, and discusses recommendations to guarantee its meaningful enaction within the DoD. Implementation is a necessary step for ensuring not just a diverse force, but a more secure world. Adopting WPS guidance is also necessary for addressing some of the cultural factors that contribute to an environment that has cultivated sexual assault for far too long.
The Women, Peace, and Security Act
The WPS Act aims “to ensure that the United States promotes the meaningful participation of women in mediation and negotiation processes seeking to prevent, mitigate, or resolve violent conflict.” It is the first whole-of-government approach that acknowledges and demands the meaningful participation of women through diplomatic efforts and programs. It also requires certain U.S. agencies—including the DoD—to construct specific implementation plans. The United States must not only lead by example, but it must truly support the development and inclusion of women in national security. Unlike previous WPS National Action Plans, the 2017 WPS Act requires the DoD to look inward, not just to allies, which will be a necessary step toward achieving the cultural change required to address issues of sexual harassment and assault in the military.
SPC Guillén’s case is emblematic of deep-rooted cultural issues that not only lead to instances of harassment and assault, but also result in a continued cycle of violence.
In June 2020, the DoD released its own strategy, the Women, Peace, and Security Strategic Framework and Implementation Plan. The plan names three objectives, the first of which directly impacts the joint force, while the second two focus on operational strategy with allies and partners. The first objective commits the DoD to exemplifying “a diverse organization that allows for women’s meaningful participation across the development, management, and employment of the Joint Force.” This will require that various departmental equities comprehensively address gender integration, sexual assault and prevention, and gender-based violence to more fully respect women institutionally and protect them from violence.
Ongoing Violence against Women within the DoD as a WPS Issue
Although the services continually struggle to foster respect and dignity toward women and prevent sexual assault, the subject takes on new meaning following the disappearance and murder of Army Specialist Vanessa Guillén in April 2020. Details about the murder, subsequent investigation, and implications for Army culture reinforce the need for a WPS strategy internal to the DoD and underscore the failings of the services to date. During a trip to Fort Hood, then-Secretary of the Army Ryan McCarthy promised to create “enduring change” in the Army. Focusing on SPC Guillén, he stated, “We have to address the challenges and barriers that our soldiers endure. The murder of SPC Vanessa Guillén has become a catalyst highlighting sexual harassment and sexual assault within the military.”
SPC Guillén’s case is emblematic of deep-rooted cultural issues that not only lead to instances of harassment and assault, but also result in a continued cycle of violence. SPC Guillén’s family reported that she had spoken to them about being sexually harassed at work, but did not report the harassment to the Army. Her reluctance to report this harassment echoes the fears that many women in the military have about reporting sexual harassment and assault. As her sister noted, “She told my mom, ‘I can’t report it, I’ve seen other girls pass through the same situation and they ignore them. They say that they’re lying. They don’t listen to them.’” Although one of the principles of the DoD WPS implementation plan is the “protection of women and girls against violence,” the services regularly fail to do so.
Junior enlisted service members are not only the group most likely to experience sexual harassment and assault, they are also the most likely to report hesitation or inability to take action to correct it.
SPC Guillén’s disappearance, the perception of a slow Army response, and the eventual discovery of her brutal murder shone a spotlight on military sexual harassment and assault during an already turbulent year, and the details of her story reopened wounds for many military women, including for the women veterans participating in the CNAS panel. These women came from different military branches and eras of service, including a Coast Guard veteran, a Marine Corps veteran, a retired Navy senior enlisted member, and a prior-enlisted reserve Marine Corps officer. The panelists brought to life the breadth and scale of the impact sexual harassment and assault has on the military, illustrating that the decades of supposed efforts to document, educate, and prosecute sexual harassment and assault have been insufficient.
According to the Department of Defense, in 2018, an estimated 24.2 percent of women and 6.3 percent of men serving on active duty indicated that they experienced sexual harassment. To compound these numbers, “active duty women who experienced sexual harassment were at three times greater risk for sexual assault.” Twenty percent of those who report harassment also report assault. Sexual harassment and assault go hand-in-hand and are increasingly linked with entrenched cultural problems in the services.
The panelists and SPC Guillén’s case highlight enlisted women’s unique burden. Junior enlisted service members are not only the group most likely to experience sexual harassment and assault, they are also the most likely to report hesitation or inability to take action to correct it. They comprise the youngest and lowest group of individuals in the DoD hierarchy, putting them at a disadvantage. While officers are not immune to harassment and assault, they have the benefit of rank and access to leadership that often allow for more ready access to resources to address the behavior. Junior service members and minorities, however, do not. It is critical that enlisted women’s voices are heard.
Enduring change means changing the culture, and that is a tough mission. In addition to combating harassment and/or assault, cultural change must address gender discrimination, which encompasses microaggressions, gendered language meant to demean others, and norms that prioritize men’s careers. Sexual violence exists within an institution and culture that labels women unfit to serve, demeans women, promotes leaders who remain accidentally or willfully ignorant of problems, and fails to follow words with convincing actions. These beliefs are reinforced by leadership statements questioning whether women can succeed in the combat arms.
The four testimonials shared in the panel discussion, the experiences of thousands of female service members, and SPC Guillén’s murder and alleged harassment demonstrate that recommendations proposed by well-meaning leaders over the years have not led to the changes envisioned. These include congressional proposals to change the prosecution process, how reporting is recorded, and who is responsible for bringing the case to court. These also include the oft repeated observation that sexual assault “is a leadership issue.”
Such process recommendations and amorphous reference to personal responsibility highlight a troubling gap between where the DoD is today and where it needs to be to meet its own guidance. Sexual harassment and assault remain firmly entrenched in the military and within the broader national security environment. Without launching preventative measures and institutionalizing a cultural change, the DoD will not be able to comply with its own WPS implementation plan objectives and lines of effort, nor can it expect meaningful participation from women on the part of its allies and partners.
Recommendations
The WPS Act and implementation plans focus broadly on women’s participation and value to an organization. The DoD has been so narrowly focused on process that it has missed the overall need to create a more inclusive and dignity-affirming culture. The panelists’ experiences reinforce the need for the enduring change promised by then-Secretary McCarthy in his trip to Fort Hood and offer some insights into how that change may come to be.
The idea of cultural change in the military is intimidating; the concept raises more questions than it answers. Military culture is deeply engrained and can often have a positive influence on the institution by building comradery and unit cohesion. However, the same culture that builds the “band of brothers” also has exclusionary undertones that have negatively impacted integration attempts. Culture change is also difficult to measure, which is particularly challenging for an organization built on tangible metrics. But the services pride themselves on the ability to “train out” undesirable behaviors during recruit training and “train in” behaviors that fit the military mission and culture. Addressing gender discrimination, sexual harassment, and sexual assault—as well as the cultural norms that allow them to fester—must be done in the same way. Most attention is focused on how to prosecute judicial and non-judicial punishments, but to train in good behavior, the services must take steps at recruitment, initial training, and every subsequent touchpoint to reinforce respect for others.
Seeing women as leaders from day one will address the negative behavior CNAS panelists noted, including lack of respect and viewing women as “others.”
The DoD WPS implementation plan names four multi-pronged lines of effort that begin to address this change: support women’s participation; promote women and girls’ human rights, safety, and access to resources and support; adjust U.S. programming; and encourage partner nations to support the WPS Act. To effectively integrate women and benefit from the diverse perspectives that women bring to warfighting and conflict management, the DoD must fully implement the WPS Act. Four additional actions should be taken:
Integrate the services. The DoD must continue efforts to meaningfully integrate the services with particular attention to holistic inclusion into the core competencies of the military, rather than a focus on numbers. Only through full and effective integration of women at all levels of training and operations can the DoD meet the standard of meaningful participation of women and reap the benefits of gender-diverse perspectives and skills in the security arena.
Gender bias, harassment, and any derogatory or degrading behavior must be among the first behavioral traits to be “trained out.” This starts with exposing young recruits, cadets, and officer candidates to diverse instructors from the day they enter service. Whether at recruit training, officer candidate school, ROTC, or a service academy, training institutions must be deliberate in ensuring that their instructor cadre is diverse throughout the training pipeline. Seeing women as leaders from day one will address the negative behavior CNAS panelists noted, including lack of respect and viewing women as “others.” Behavioral change is an essential precursor to cultural change. Findings from focus groups run by the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services suggest that early exposure to diverse instructors has a positive impact on future behavior and unit cohesion. In particular, men’s early experience with women leaders reduces the likelihood that they will harass women peers in the future. Training out discriminatory and harassing behavior can be done through effective and completely integrated training and leadership from the beginning.
The full and effective implementation of a true gendered perspective—one that incorporates gender into planning, strategy, and policy decisions—will help bring about needed elements of cultural change.
Holistically implement gendered perspectives. Currently, professional military education (PME) addresses the WPS through communities of interest, electives, and research groups. While this is an important step in recognizing the need for the WPS as part of the military system, to create enduring change it must move from a community of interest into the totality of the services’ intellectual life.
Implementation must apply to initial training scenarios, leadership schools, service-wide planning processes, joint wargames, and international exercises. The full and effective implementation of a true gendered perspective—one that incorporates gender into planning, strategy, and policy decisions—will help bring about needed elements of cultural change. The backbone of the WPS Act is the evidence that holistic gendered perspectives and women’s security makes all of society more secure. From a military perspective, this means forming an institutional understanding of the benefits of diverse perspectives in warfighting. Internalizing these perspectives will not only make better warfighters, but also create a culture of mutual respect among military members that will combat the root causes of harassment and assault. This cannot be a “one and done” attempt; this learning must be reinforced at every step along the military career path, and it must be tied to career progression and leadership development.
Intentionally diversify leadership at every level of the chain of command. Because of the relatively low numbers of women and minorities at higher ranks, increasing representation should include unprecedented effort from the top.
Leadership’s role in culture, norm-generation and internalization, and accountability cannot be understated. Leaders set norms, embody norms, and drive the culture of their units. Diverse leadership is proven to reduce the risks of sexual harassment and assault, as leaders set the tone for the organization as a whole. By developing and promoting leaders who have different backgrounds and experiences, who embody empathy and accountability, and who expect their subordinates to do the same, the perspectives considered at every level can broaden, bringing about enduring change.
Clearly tie military sexual assault and harassment to the WPS Act. The DOD must ensure that leaders at every level recognize the national security implications of failing to meaningfully address sexual harassment and assault internally, as well as within partner nations. Implementing gendered perspectives begins to address this, but it must extend beyond PME. Small unit lessons, safety briefs, and training evolutions must include a focus on dignity and respect. Sexual harassment and assault cannot be combated in isolation. They must be fully integrated into all training.
By institutionalizing a culture that respects the perspectives of everyone who serves, the military advances preventative measures to address sexual harassment and assault.
These recommendations represent just a start of what is needed—a start that deeply matters for human rights and national security. By institutionalizing a culture that respects the perspectives of everyone who serves, the military advances preventative measures to address sexual harassment and assault. In reducing cases of gender-based violence, the military can more effectively recruit, develop, promote, and retain women. Full implementation of the WPS Act, particularly ensuring that the DoD exemplifies “a diverse organization that allows for women’s meaningful participation,” can and will strengthen our nation.
About the Authors
Dr. Kyleanne Hunter is an Adjunct Senior Fellow in the Military, Veterans, and Society Program at CNAS, Managing Director of the Athena Leadership Project, Assistant Professor of Military and Strategic Studies at the U.S. Air Force Academy, and a Marine Corps veteran.
Emma Moore is a Research Associate at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). Moore is a Non-Resident Fellow at the Brute Krulak Center for Innovation and Creativity at Marine Corps University.In early 2021, the audio-only social media app Clubhouse allowed users in mainland China to enter chat rooms and talk freely to the world—including American journalists and people in Hong Kong and Taiwan, areas usually off-limits to Chinese citizens. For a brief period, users of the app had an uncensored glimpse of the internet beyond the Great Firewall.
But Beijing moved quickly to crush the tiny, iPhone-based revolt, and Clubhouse chat rooms were banned on Feb. 8. A Stanford research team later found that a Shanghai-based startup called Agora had access to Clubhouse users’ audio files and metadata, potentially giving the Chinese Communist Party direct access to their conversations.
Democracies are discovering they can fight fire with fire, using their own digital tools to defend freedom and undermine autocracy.
Technologies aimed at surveilling populations, suppressing dissent and spreading propaganda have long been used by authoritarian governments. But in recent years, democracies are discovering they can fight fire with fire, using their own digital tools to defend freedom and undermine autocracy. New tools, many of them developed by the commercial sector as privacy safeguards, are increasingly being repurposed as democracy’s digital defenses.
During demonstrations in 2019, protesters in Hong Kong relied on the Reddit-like website LIHKG to communicate with fellow dissidents. They used the crowdsourced web-mapping service HKmap.live to avoid police and the dating app Tinder to recruit new pro-democracy activists. Dissidents have even used the augmented reality game Pokémon Go to provide cover for unauthorized gatherings. Russian opposition members have developed a “protest navigator” on Telegram, an encrypted messaging app, as well as bots that identify police locations during marches.
Read the full article from The Wall Street Journal.Last year the pandemic derailed large-scale war gaming – this year it's back with a vengeance. The U.S. military is taking part in a massive joint training exercise across Europe and North Africa. Becca Wasser discusses the significance of Defender-Europe 21 in an interview with NPR's Jay Price.
Listen to the full conversation on NPR.Andrea Kendall-Taylor discusses with host Carol Castiel the significance of Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s visit to Ukraine.
Listen to the full episode from Voice of America.On CNBC’s Worldwide Exchange, Martijn Rasser discusses the rise in tensions between China and Taiwan, potential responses by the U.S. and G-7 countries, and whether Beijing could use a military invasion to gain control of Taiwan’s critical semiconductor industry.
Watch the full conversation on CNBC.On March 23, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, sat down for an auspiciously timed meeting. The high-level talks came just a day after an unusually heated public exchange between senior U.S. and Chinese officials in Anchorage, Alaska, and in sharp contrast, the Chinese and Russian foreign ministers struck an amicable tone. Together, they rejected Western criticism of their human rights records and issued a joint statement offering an alternative vision for global governance. The U.S.-led international order, Lavrov said, “does not represent the will of the international community.”
The meeting was noteworthy for more than its rhetoric, however. Within days of it, Russia began amassing troops along Ukraine’s border—the largest number since Moscow’s annexation of Crimea in 2014. Simultaneously, China began conducting highly publicized amphibious assault exercises and air incursions into Taiwan’s so-called air defense identification zone at the highest frequency in nearly 25 years. These military moves have reignited concerns in Washington about the potential depth of Chinese-Russian coordination.
Any effort to address either Russia’s or China’s destabilizing behavior must now account for the two countries’ deepening partnership.
For the United States, confronting these decidedly different adversaries will be a tall order, and the two countries will inevitably divide Washington’s attention, capabilities, and resources. The events of the last several weeks make clear that the administration of President Joe Biden will have difficulty managing Chinese behavior without addressing Moscow’s support for Beijing and that Washington must now calculate how its response to one adversary will shape the calculus of the other.
The problems the two countries pose to Washington are distinct, but the convergence of their interests and the complementarity of their capabilities—military and otherwise—make their combined challenge to U.S. power greater than the sum of its parts. China, in particular, is using its relationship with Russia to fill gaps in its military capabilities, accelerate its technological innovation, and complement its efforts to undermine U.S. global leadership. Any effort to address either Russia’s or China’s destabilizing behavior must now account for the two countries’ deepening partnership.
Read the full article from Foreign Affairs.What does President Biden’s decision to withdraw all troops from Afghanistan mean for American allies? Federica Mogherini and Lisa Curtis join Andrea Kendall-Taylor and Jim Townsend to discuss the decision to withdraw, allied forces in Afghanistan, and more.
Federica Mogherini is Rector of the College of Europe. She previously served as High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice-President of the European Commission from 2014-2019. Lisa Curtis is a Senior Fellow and Director of the Indo-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). She is a foreign policy and national security expert with over 20 years of service in the U.S. government, including at the NSC, CIA, State Department, and Capitol Hill.
Brussels Sprouts · U.S. and Allied Withdrawal from Afghanistan, with Federica Mogherini and Lisa CurtisIn its early weeks, the Biden administration has wisely signaled that it plans to shift U.S. focus away from the Middle East and toward global competition with China. In addition to the political and military realms, Washington will need to compete with China in the realm of technology. And it is here that fresh thinking is most needed. Such an approach will require new frameworks for action, and there are a number of proposals for how tech leading democracies can come together in different multilateral and minilateral formats. Few, however, offer recommendations on how to turn these ideas into action.
We propose that the tech-leading democracies engage and coordinate in a framework based on three central legs: aligning strategic perspectives with regards to China; harmonizing our regulatory regimes with regards to investment and export control; and deepening economic and technology cooperation.
But the United States will be more effective working in concert with like-minded countries and rallying its allies and partners to craft a unified approach to technology policy.
China is making major investments in key strategic technologies such as 5G telecommunications, quantum computing, and artificial intelligence, which over time could translate into economic and military advantages over the United States. It has pursued policies of forced technology transfer and intellectual property theft. It has worked to create new regional economic mechanisms and tried to shape existing international institutions to facilitate a friendly environment for Chinese technology companies. And worryingly, it has converted many new information technologies designed to provide greater freedom and opportunity to humanity into tools of oppression to be leveraged by the surveillance state and exported those tools to other autocratic governments.
There is much the United States can do on its own to respond to this challenge, such as investing in research and development, updating its export control regime to better protect U.S. technological advantages, and investing in the education of the next generation of scientists. But the United States will be more effective working in concert with like-minded countries and rallying its allies and partners to craft a unified approach to technology policy.
Read the full article from The Diplomat.Martijn Rasser offers insights to Fox News on how semiconductor shortage intensifies US-China tensions.
Watch the full conversation on Fox News.In sharp contrast with former U.S. President Donald Trump’s “America first” agenda, President Joe Biden and his administration have conspicuously embraced multilateralism. The new team spent its first weeks in office reversing some of the more controversial manifestations of its predecessor’s approach—rejoining the Paris climate accord, halting the United States’ withdrawal from the World Health Organization (WHO), reengaging with the UN Human Rights Council, and conditionally recommitting to the Iran nuclear deal—and Biden and his deputies rarely miss an opportunity to talk up the importance of alliances and international cooperation.
This is all generally to the good. From Washington’s perspective, working with other countries to resolve common challenges often means greater legitimacy and lower costs compared with going it alone. But not all multilateralism is created equal. In an era of renewed great-power competition, venues such as the UN Security Council and the G-20 are frequently deadlocked, even when their members share broad interests. Chinese influence has undermined the effectiveness of key international organizations, such as the WHO, and multilateral trade agreements, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, lack domestic political support.
A focus on niche, time-bound multilateral efforts—including those led by small countries—is likely to have a disproportionately positive effect.
The lack of effective mechanisms for coordinating international action has clearly frustrated the new administration and generated a clutch of proposals for new configurations: a T-12 that would unite “techno-democracies,” for example; a D-10 that would bring together leading democratic powers; a “Quad-plus” that would include South Korea or Southeast Asian nations in dialogues with the United States, Japan, India, and Australia; a climate summit that would galvanize global action; and a new pandemic-fighting coalition.
Washington should pay special attention, however, to the potential for small countries to take a multilateral lead. Often better equipped to pilot new programs, and better positioned to play honest broker on thorny issues, small countries are sometimes well positioned to lead multilateral efforts with more powerful nations. This combination of small-country leadership and large-state participation—call it “microlateralism”—should emerge as a key instrument in the United States’ collective-action toolkit.
Read the full article from Foreign Affairs.In this week’s edition of the SpyTalk podcast, Jeff Stein goes deep on the CIA’s looming eviction from Afghanistan with Lisa Curtis, a longtime former CIA, State Department and White House National Security Council expert on the region. And then co-host Jeanne Meserve conducts a lively interview with a former senior CIA and NSA analyst, Alma Katsu, about her new, post-government-service thriller, Red Widow, which features a gutsy female spy heroine.
Listen to the full episode from Spy Talk:In early April, the leaders of the U.S. intelligence community outlined the most pressing national security threats facing the nation during testimony to the Senate and House intelligence committees. While the written testimony from the intelligence chiefs provided a window into the breadth of hostile and malign activities from China, Russia, Iran and North Korea, as well as cross-cutting threats, this year’s hearing came across to this long-time observer as a warning of the limits of the intelligence community and affiliated national security institutions to protect the country from domestic efforts to undermine its own democracy.
Preserving U.S. democracy has always been a core national security interest; it just didn’t necessarily need to be said out loud until the country entered 2021 facing the upending of American lives, families and democracy itself in the wake of the Trump presidency, its handling of the pandemic, and then the January 6, 2021 insurrection. Efforts by political actors to cast doubt on the outcome of the November 2020 presidential election, willingness to exploit American’s fears about their liberty by flouting science and public health guidance to protect against the spread of the pandemic, and renewed efforts to make it harder for underrepresented communities to vote, are the most recent examples of the toxic brew of nationalism and truth abandonment threatening the United States’s ability to thrive.
Protecting national security means that Americans should both be, as a practical matter, and feel, as a theoretical one, reasonably safe at home.
Protecting national security means that Americans should both be, as a practical matter, and feel, as a theoretical one, reasonably safe at home. The United States spends close to a trillion dollars on defense, intelligence, homeland security and diplomacy. Americans should be able to live relatively free of fear of violence from threats, foreign and domestic, as a result. That includes protection from a nation state launching a nuclear weapon or from international terrorists flying passenger planes into skyscrapers. It should also include safety from a group of domestic terrorists invading the Capitol and sending lawmakers and their staffs hiding under tables.
Defending national security also means preserving the effective functioning of the Constitution and ensuring that public leaders uphold their oaths to it. This means that events prescribed by the Constitution like confirmation hearings, election administration and vote certification should take place safely and routinely. In a healthy U.S. democracy, it would not be a question that the election will be held on the first Tuesday of November in a designated year, or that the certification of the vote would proceed on the following January 6th. Some political drama is okay. System failure is not.
Read the full article from The Bulwark.The Russian Foreign Intelligence Service’s compromise of U.S. company SolarWinds and a variety of other information technology infrastructures has been described as “the greatest cyber intrusion, perhaps, in the history of the world.” According to the Biden administration, the hack gave the Russians the ability to compromise or disrupt potentially 16,000 computer systems worldwide, enabling collection of vast amounts of information from federal departments and agencies, private companies, and other victims.
On April 15, the Biden administration outlined its response. The White House formally attributed the campaign to the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service, expelled Russian diplomats from the United States, imposed sanctions on six Russian technology companies that support the intelligence service’s cyber operations, and issued a new directive imposing sovereign debt sanctions on Russia. The administration’s actions were impressive in terms of their scope, drawing on many U.S. response options simultaneously.
Working with foreign governments to make the internet a more secure place is not just a diplomatic opportunity. It should be a key national security priority.
While the most newsworthy aspects of Washington’s response to Russia was featured in the first two-thirds of the April 15 statement, the last section outlined important steps that will guide America’s international cyber policy for years to come. The Biden administration explained that it would be “supporting a global cybersecurity approach” through international capacity-building projects focused on enhancing understanding of the “policy and technical aspects of publicly attributing cyber incidents” and the provision of training to foreign partners on the applicability of international law in cyberspace. This effort highlights an often overlooked element of U.S. national security and cyberspace policy: Improved cyber security around the world and improved capacity to identify and hold accountable malign actors in cyberspace make the Internet safe for American users and everyone else. When the United States helps its international partners improve their own cyber security, the benefits reverberate across cyberspace.
For the United States, working with foreign governments to make the internet a more secure place is not just a diplomatic opportunity. It should be a key national security priority. International capacity building is particularly critical in cyberspace because threats from hackers, cyber criminals, and hostile intelligence services originate from all over the world. In addition, ensuring the resiliency of cyberspace on a global scale is imperative in countering China’s growing digital footprint and influence.
Read the full article from War on the Rocks.Yaya Fanusie joins WPR’s Elliot Waldman for a conversation about what China’s digital currency is and what it’s not.
Listen to the full conversation from World Politics Review.The first 100 days of the Biden-Harris administration have featured a range of key foreign policy and national security decisions, from Afghanistan and China to America's COVID-19 response and the threat of climate change. As the administration marks its 100th day in office, what lies ahead? CNAS experts are sharpening the conversation about the national security challenges facing the Biden administration. Continue reading this edition of Sharper to explore their ideas and recommendations.
Features
The Department of Homeland Security: Priorities for Reform
With a new administration in place and the 117th Congress underway, there is a unique and pressing opportunity to reform the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In the midst of a rapidly evolving security environment, the department should be reoriented in a way that best protects the United States from homeland security threats consistent with law, security and public safety needs, and the nation’s fundamental values. In the first of a series of mission briefs on reforming DHS, CNAS Robert M. Gates Senior Fellow Carrie Cordero and Executive Research Assistant Katie Galgano offer recommendations for areas of reform.
Trust the Process
Technology and innovation are critical enablers of American military, political, and economic power. But the bureaucratic connective tissue necessary to bring new ideas to life—the people, processes, talent, and relationships within and beyond government—remains uncoordinated, under resourced, and undervalued. In a new CNAS report, authors Loren DeJonge Schulman and Ainikki Riikonen develop a framework for the bureaucratic elements necessary to effectively execute a national technology strategy.
Positive Visions, Powerful Partnerships
At a time when China’s growing global influence has begun to shift the regional balance of power, the pandemic has accelerated and exacerbated many trends in the Indo-Pacific, creating new challenges and opportunities for the United States. Without decisive, coordinated action, regional trends could continue on a trajectory that further favors Beijing. In a new CNAS report, experts Stephen Tankel, Lisa Curtis, Joshua Fitt, and Coby Goldberg argue that the United States must take action in close cooperation—bilaterally, trilaterally, and through the Quad—with Japan, Australia, and India to compete effectively with China in the diplomatic, economic, and defense domains.
CONGRESS & NATIONAL SECURITY
The Department of Homeland Security: Priorities for Reform
There is an opportunity to reform the Department of Homeland Security in a way that best protects the country from homeland security threats, consistent with law, security and...
TECHNOLOGY & NATIONAL SECURITY
Trust the Process
The United States is navigating a new paradigm of competition, one that centers not merely on traditional measures of military might, but on technology innovation and its cont...
INDO-PACIFIC SECURITY
Positive Visions, Powerful Partnerships
Restoring U.S. alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific is critical to competing effectively against China....
Events
The Future of the U.S. Afghanistan Strategy
Ahead of the newly announced troop withdrawal deadline of September 11, 2021, serious doubts remain about the Taliban's commitment to the agreement and the future of U.S. strategy in the region. CNAS hosted a conversation in March about the ongoing challenges with General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr. (Ret.), former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Ambassador James B. Cunningham, former U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan; Richard Fontaine, CNAS CEO; and Lisa Curtis, Director of the CNAS Indo-Pacific Security Program. Yalda Hakim, anchor and correspondent for BBC World News, moderated the conversation.
Confronting the Domestic Terrorism Threat
Recently, extremist groups have become more visible and emboldened, culminating in the January 6 insurrection at the Capitol. These events have led to questions surrounding the adequacy of intelligence gathering, information sharing, and the commitment of the federal government to prioritize countering domestic terrorism. CNAS hosted a virtual event on confronting the threat with Christian Beckner, former associate staff director for the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee; Josh Campbell, CNN correspondent and former FBI supervisory special agent; Alexis Collins, former counsel to the assistant attorney general for national security at the DOJ; and Alex Joel, former chief at the Office of Civil Liberties, Privacy and Transparency. Carrie Cordero, the CNAS Robert M. Gates Senior Fellow, moderated the event.
INDO-PACIFIC SECURITY
Special Event: The Future of the U.S. Afghanistan Strategy
Mar 4, 2021
CONGRESS & NATIONAL SECURITY
Virtual Panel Discussion: Confronting the Domestic Terrorism Threat
Feb 25, 2021
Commentaries
America’s Military Risks Losing Its Edge
"The Biden administration has inherited a U.S. military at an inflection point," Michèle Flournoy writes in Foreign Affairs. "The Defense Department’s leadership, accordingly, must take much bigger and bolder steps to maintain the United States’ military and technological edge over great-power competitors. Otherwise, the U.S. military risks losing that edge within a decade, with profound and unsettling implications for the United States, for its allies and partners, and for the world. At stake is the United States’ ability to deter coercion, aggression, and even war in the coming decades."
The Case Against Foreign Policy Solutionism
"Devising solutions to national security problems might seem all to the good," argues Richard Fontaine in Foreign Affairs. "The problem is that not all problems can actually be solved—and many of today’s foremost foreign policy challenges fall squarely into that category. Policymakers often consider it better to 'get caught trying' (as the previous Democratic secretary of state put it) than risk the costs of inaction. But trying to fix the insoluble can often make things worse."
DEFENSE
America’s Military Risks Losing Its Edge
Much about the way the Pentagon operates continues to reflect business as usual, which is inadequate to meet the growing threats posed by a rising China and a revisionist Russ...
INDO-PACIFIC SECURITY
The Case Against Foreign Policy Solutionism
Not all problems can actually be solved—and many of today’s foremost foreign policy challenges fall squarely into that category....
Biden’s Intelligence Community Must Focus On Climate Crisis
"Not only does climate change create significant security threats to America through multiplying global instability," writes Anthony Vinci in Breaking Defense, "it is also a major component of the great power competition with China and Russia. The incoming Biden administration can do much to address climate change as a national security issue. An important first step would be to make changes in the IC so it has the capabilities and focus to help policy makers preserve American interests."
Three Lessons From the Past 365 Days of Online Misinformation
"The failed insurrection on Jan. 6 exemplified the real-world consequences of online misinformation converging with heightened polarization," explain Christopher Estep and Megan Lamberth in Inkstick. "After the digital disorder of this past year, what can US policymakers and tech companies learn about the current realities and uncertain future of the online misinformation problem?"
The Trans Ban Is Gone but More Needs To Be Done
"Simply lifting the ban put in place in 2018 isn’t enough to counteract the discrimination transgender service members and veterans continue to face," writes Nathalie Grogan in Inkstick. "The next steps for the Department of Defense should be to expand the data available on currently serving transgender personnel, develop a targeted recruitment strategy to reach a more diverse population, and protect LGBT service members from all types of harassment and abuse."
TECHNOLOGY & NATIONAL SECURITY
Biden’s Intelligence Community Must Focus On Climate Crisis
The incoming Biden administration can do much to address climate change as a national security issue....
TECHNOLOGY & NATIONAL SECURITY
Three Lessons From the Past 365 Days of Online Misinformation
What can US policymakers and tech companies learn about the current realities and uncertain future of the online misinformation problem?...
MILITARY, VETERANS, & SOCIETY
The Trans Ban Is Gone but More Needs To Be Done
Simply lifting the ban isn’t enough to counteract the discrimination transgender service members and veterans continue to face....
In the News
Featuring commentary and analysis by Andrea Kendall-Taylor, Lisa Curtis, Martijn Rasser, and Elsa B. Kania.
TRANSATLANTIC SECURITY
Is Russia Preparing to Go to War in Ukraine?
Russia’s military buildup near the border of Ukraine continued this week, deepening global concern about Moscow’s ultimate intentions as senior Russian officials and state med...
INDO-PACIFIC SECURITY
On foreign policy decisions, Biden faces drag of pragmatism
President Joe Biden this past week found himself in search of a foreign policy sweet spot: somewhere between pulling a screeching U-turn on four years of Trumpism and cautious...
TECHNOLOGY & NATIONAL SECURITY
Biden’s biggest clean-energy partner: China
“Ultimately, bringing manufacturing back to the U.S. would require a rethink of economic policy,” said Martijn Rasser, a senior fellow at the bipartisan Center for a New Ameri...
INDO-PACIFIC SECURITY
Joe Biden’s 5 Tech Priorities
President-elect Joe Biden’s transition team describes its animating philosophy as “build back better.” It’s both a nod to the Trump administration’s penchant for paring back t...
About the Sharper Series
The CNAS Sharper series features curated analysis and commentary from CNAS experts on the most critical challenges in U.S. foreign policy. From the future of America's relationship with China to the state of U.S. sanctions policy and more, each collection draws on the reports, interviews, and other commentaries produced by experts across the Center to explore how America can strengthen its competitive edge.
Subscribe
Sign up to receive the latest analysis from the CNAS expert community on the most important issues facing America's national security.
Name *


Email *


SubscribeAround the Table is a three-question interview series from the Make Room email newsletter. Each edition features a conversation with a peer in the national security community to learn about their expertise and experience in the sector.
Joud Monla-Hassan is a program officer at the National Democratic Institute specializing in the Middle East and North Africa. The views expressed are those of the author and do not reflect the position of the National Democratic Institute.
You've done extensive research and work on child marriage in the Middle East. What are some of the root causes of child marriage and why is it so difficult to address those?
The issue of child marriage is extremely difficult to address in general because of the cultural sensitivity attached with prescribing any sort of catch-all solution to a global phenomenon. There are three main root causes of the child marriage practice: economic instability, lack of safety/security, and lack of access to schools. The problem we see with addressing these issues in the Middle East is that the intent of parents who are entering their children into these marriages is not necessarily malicious. Child marriage is being used mostly as a coping mechanism in response to regional crises that are exacerbating the root causes. It’s difficult to provide alternatives to the practice in a space where people are turning to the practice out of dire need. It’s an especially precarious situation for refugee families, who might see these marriages as a “way out” for their daughters living in dire situations, whether that be camps or urban refugee communities. While education does provide an extremely helpful space to combat the issue, access to schools is not always feasible in parts of the region that are facing conflicts and economic crises.
What advice do you have for young Arab Americans starting in the field?
My biggest piece of advice is to always feel empowered to reach out to other Arab Americans in the field. A lot of my mentors, bosses, colleagues, etc. in DC are Arab American, and almost everyone wants to help one another reach their true potential. Connecting with your community is so important in a field like this because it opens the doors to new opportunities, space for collaboration, and you get to learn a lot from people that have been working in the field for some time. It can be discouraging to find yourself in a space where you’re not culturally relating to your peers, so finding other Arab Americans in the field is super important in maintaining that connection to the community. I would also stress the importance of staying true to your identity. Your individual voice and opinions can shift the way people around you are looking at issues. Try to steer clear of molding your input to match what you think others around you might want to hear.
How can everyday Americans support Syrians and Syrian Americans during the ongoing conflict in Syria?
By listening to what Syrian Americans have to say. There have been numerous occasions where I’ve found myself listening in on a discussion surrounding the Syrian conflict where the wants of Syrian Americans are not mentioned. A long-lasting solution to the Syrian conflict will have to come from within the Syrian population, and Syrian Americans are well equipped to bring that connection over into the American sphere of discussion. The Syrian American community has access to so many resources that can directly benefit the people within Syria, so checking with your Syrian American colleagues on what charities to donate to or what NGOs to support is a good first step at providing direct aid to those who are facing the direct impact of the conflict. Unfortunately, many non-Syrian organizations can’t provide aid to the most vulnerable populations, and because of the Syrian American community’s direct relationship with people on the ground, they can provide alternative ways to help those in need. This conflict is extremely complex, and there is a deep emotional connection to it within the Syrian diaspora and Syrian American community, so emphasizing a sense of sensitivity to Syrian viewpoints in terms of intervention is critical.
Subscribe
Sign up to receive the Make Room newsletter every month in your inbox.
Name *


Email *


SubscribeAfter four years of chaos in US-EU relations, it was as if the clouds immediately parted on 3 November 2020. Transatlanticists in Washington and across Europe breathed a sigh of relief as Americans voted for a president who is both pro-EU and pro-NATO. The work of repairing a damaged transatlantic relationship could finally begin. Unfortunately, that honeymoon period may be coming to an abrupt halt. Progress on several pressing transatlantic issues in the next four years will depend on deep coordination and healthy relations between the United States and Germany. That bilateral relationship is on thin ice. At the top of the list of irritants is the Nord Stream 2 pipeline in the Baltic Sea, which is around 95 per cent complete and is set to provide Russian natural gas to the European market.
Progress on several pressing transatlantic issues in the next four years will depend on deep coordination and healthy relations between the United States and Germany. That bilateral relationship is on thin ice.
To an outside observer, a pipeline project years in the making might not seem like it has the ability to derail the US-European partnership. That assumption is wrong; this single initiative is a proxy for a whole spectrum of US concerns about Europe. This is why successive US administrations have strongly opposed it. American policymakers fret about growing Russian influence across Europe, the potential for Ukraine to lose billions in annual revenue from transit fees if Russia tries to bypass its natural gas infrastructure, and the reality that Washington may have less say on European policy as the continent becomes more independent-minded. They are also aware that, as ECFR’s latest EU Coalition Explorer shows, Germany is the key country among the EU27 when it comes to European cooperation on transatlantic relations and energy policy.
Germans, for their part, see Nord Stream 2 as strengthening European energy security, and believe that US hawkishness on Russia is counterproductive. In the long run, they view clear-eyed and cautious engagement with Moscow as the smarter play.
Read the full article from the European Council on Foreign Relations.President Joe Biden inherited a greater North Korea challenge than his predecessors. Pyongyang’s nuclear and missile capabilities are significantly more advanced than any American administration imagined since the first nuclear crisis of the 1990s. Past agreements unraveled over politics, transparency, verification, and time. North Korea sees the U.S. democratic electoral system as a strategic weakness it can take advantage of—despite complaining about inconsistent policies—by raising tensions to increase leverage and simply waiting out administrations that will not offer deals to its liking. Changing American administrations, meanwhile, need time to rebuild their North Korea teams, coordinate their inter-agency process, and deal with domestic politics and other urgent foreign policy matters.
North Korea sees the U.S. democratic electoral system as a strategic weakness it can take advantage of
All the while, the regime steadily mass produces missiles and nuclear warheads, and perfects its weapons technology by testing ballistic missiles that can be used in battle, or could even start a war by miscalculation. Pyongyang continues to exploit the gray zone between war and peace with its ballistic missile tests, bellicose rhetoric, cyber attacks, nuclear weapons development, and occasional conciliatory gestures. North Korea’s extreme self-isolation due to the coronavirus pandemic and U-turn in its economic policies to more centralization do not necessarily portend an imminent or looming internal crisis. North Korea has proven resilient in the harshest of economic times before. Its exorbitant earnings from cybercrimes and illicit financial activities have also become a lucrative source of funding for its nuclear weapons development, and it is easy to speculate that these activities could also finance parts of its economy.
Read the full article from the Democracy Journal.
